Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're gonna have a look at snapping.
Now as you can see here we've got two sets of cubes one on the right is perfectly snapped together the
one on the left is a bit wonky to be quite honest now both of these took the same amount of time to
do so if you need to align things together snapping is your tool but how do we use it.
Let's find out more and hop on over in blender.
Okay everybody Welcome back well the snapping tool is a very simple one to use but it's got many many
options and some of them can be a bit confusing at the very top of the 3D view.
We've got this magnet tool we click on that.
We've turned snapping on.
Okay.
What does that mean.
Well it means if we go ahead and move our cube Now you'll notice that it moves in whole increments.
In fact it's moving one blender unit or one meter at a time as we go if we go into our orthographic
mode either top front left right back.
Whatever you've picked you can see that it now snaps to the grid and because zoomed in just enough
to see the smaller squares it's moving by point one of a unit as well.
And we can confirm that by having a look over at the transform of the cube, The cube object is selected
and the same information is available in the transform options in the properties window.
If you pop that out.
Now notice that the coordinate here the Z coordinate of one meter refers to whether orange dots.
So if I press G again to move it we can see that it is moving by point 1.
If I zoom out a little further until you can't see those thin lines.
Now when I try to move it it will move by whole units at a time.
Now if you're trying to snap something you don't want it snapping.
Now if any point you don't want snapping turned on and you want to totally off quickly you can just
hold down control whilst it's turned on and then it will turn off it will toggle off.
If I let go of control then it snaps back on again.
If you need to toggle it on and off you will notice that the toggle key is now gone but you can use
the shortcut key shift in tab to toggle it on and shift in tap to toggle it off again.
Now what you won't notice by just doing that straight away have a look at the location.
Currently it's going up by whole numbers.
If I go shift and tab and turn it off we see that it's now going up by whatever it is available to it.
If I go ahead and click and place the cube and then go shift and tab turning snapping back on.
We notice when we go to move it.
Yes it's doing whole numbers again but is not whole numbers as it was before is whole numbers from its
new position which can be a little bit confusing if you are trying to snap something to the grid underneath
if that's what you are trying to do.
What you can do is next to the magnet icon.
There's a dropdown and you want absolute grid snap.
Now it won't matter.
It will snap to the grid perfectly.
Whether you're at this scale or a smaller scale as well.
Now what are the other options that are there.
Well a vertex will snap to vertices edges to edges faces to faces and volume to volume.
All of them are pretty self-explanatory.
Now the one that I find the most use while we're in object mode and we're not really editing anything
is the vertex snapping.
I'm going to click vertex snapping now and I'm not gonna adjust any of the other settings for the moment.
I'm going to rotate the view around slightly so we can see what's going on.
And I'm going to duplicate this cube snapping is turned on so it wasn't jerking all over the place.
But what I can do now is press the G key and if I move my cursor over one of the four top corners you can
see that the cube is snapping to it but it looks the same on the back two and the front two so what's
going on there.
Well if you recall on these options the target was the closest now I'm leaving is as that at the moment
because that's the way that I like working out there like fiddling around with those options unnecessarily.
But it also means that sometimes aligning can be a bit of a pain.
So if I move this cube over this side and I wanted to make kind of a step staircase going up I could
go G.
And it was snap to this.
The closest one however if i wanted the staircase going the other way up.
I would have to first move the cube over here click to set its new position and then go G and move it
again back to here.
If I tried it the other way first it would've just stacked it on top.
But you can see when we start doing things like this it becomes very quick to start building up a particular
shape without it having to match the grid so if i was to scale that cube slightly.
Now I can start stacking things in a different way completely.
And of course I need to move the cursor around occasionally to get things lined up as I would expect
them.
So there we go we've got a new shape coming together really well.
And if you're building something up out of cubes kind of like how you would do in a game like Minecraft
the snapping tool is a godsend because it really does help you build your models really really quickly.
Whether or not you're using increments or the vertex snapping option they're both really handy.
And there we go that concludes our introduction to the snapping tool we'll use it much more later on.
And it's certainly something that you're going to be able to practice as we get towards the end of section
challenge.
But for now I'll see you in the next lecture.